## Interfaces
This source code provides an graphical user interface and a simple command line utility for the expert system. Running the Graphical User Interface (GUI) allows you to add, remove, and edit people, datasets, and repositories governed by the Prolog formalization of a given module, as well as query the data provided using Prolog. The command line tool runs a series of tests to ensure correct program behavior.
## Relations
Prolog facts are formalized as instances of the Java class `Relation`. Each relation instance has a predicate and zero or more arguments. For example, the Prolog fact `ferpa_pii(foo)` indicates that the dataset foo holds personal identifying information under FERPA; this is represented in Java by a relation instance with the predicate `ferpa_pii` and the argument list `[foo]`.
## Entities
People, datasets, and repositories are formalized as subclasses of the Java class `Entity`. Each entity instance has a name and a unique ID used by the Prolog back end, as well as each relation
## Modules
When the GUI launches, it automatically loads a module which represents the formalization of a given collection of laws or policies. Each module loads contains constants, base relations, derived relations, and the Prolog source files which provide the logic controlling derived relationships. By default, the GUI loads the CMR module.
## Using the GUI
The GUI is laid out in four tabs: one for each type of entity (datasets, people, repositories) and a tab to query the expert system using Prolog. Each tab for an entity type contains a table in which each row is a entity currently recognized by the expert system and each column represents a base relation under the current module. A checked box in entry (x, y) indicates that entity x is an argument of the relation y. The entries of the table can be edited, including the entity name, and internal state is updated accordingly. Clicking the button at the bottom of the tab adds a row to the table (and therefore an entity to the existing set). The fourth tab is for querying the expert system using Prolog. Queries can be loaded by selecting from the dropdown menu, or typed directly into the top text field. Clicking "Run Query" will load the results into the bottom text field. Solutions for any variables in the query will be displayed as "X = ..." in the bottom text field below the solution they appear in.
## Code base
The GUI is implemented using the Model-View-Controller framework. Briefly, the `Model` class implements the internal state and system logic, the `View` class creates the GUI components on screen, and the `Controller` class directs communication between the model and view. 
